The many elements that
make up compensation and benefits are broadly referred
to as a compensation system. Remember, a worker receives more than just
a wage or salary from an organization. Their pay, plus additional incentives,
benefits, and services is the total compensation
a worker is given for their effort. In this video, we'll explore the concept
of a compensation system and what it includes. A compensation system can be used to
promote an organization's objectives. If appropriately designed, it can be a vital component of
an organization's business strategy. First, a compensation system can serve
as the ultimate management tool for attracting, capturing and
retaining top talent. Second, it can be a powerful
way to shape this talent and to promote constant learning and growth. The main objectives of a compensation
program are, to retain and motivate employees, to offer fair
reward for their achievements and to create incentives for future efforts. To be effective, a compensation
system needs to do two things, it should clearly align overall company
goals with employee goals, and it should accurately match the company's performance
against each individual's performance. When an employee feels like they're
contributing to the success of an organization, they will want their
compensation to reflect that success. It's important that the features of
the program express the organization's objectives directly and also account for
the conditions in the marketplace. Most systems offer several forms of
compensation, including base wage or salary, benefits and incentives. Each of these components serves
a different purpose in motivating and rewarding employees. Wages and
salary are fairly straightforward. They refer to the money that an employee
earns and can include hourly wages, weekly, monthly or
annual salaries, and overtime pay. Incentives can be monetary or
non monetary and include things that an employee earns
in addition to their wages or salary. They can include bonuses, commissions,
profit sharing, and extra time off. Finally, benefits are the additional
entitlements an employee receives. They can include health insurance,
life insurance, paid vacation, and a 401K plan or pension. Compensation elements motivate employees. However, different people are, of course,
motivated by different things. An important part of your role
as an HR professional will be balancing intrinsic rewards like
recognition and personal growth, and extrinsic rewards like paying benefits for
your employees. Coming up, you'll learn more about wages,
incentives, and benefits.